>> Nina Zakharenko: We're going to talk
about forks and remote repositories.
Distributed version control,
before Git, older systems,
SVN, CVS had one central repository,
one master server,
everyone would push to it and
pull from it,
it doesn't work that way.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And it's
important to talk about those, because
we've been talking a lot about the tool.
But we haven't really talked
about what Git enables us to do.
By doing away with that central
repository, for example,
if you were working on SVN, and
the central repository was down,
you couldn't push changes you couldn't
check out code, you were stuck.
Git doesn't work that way.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
that's mostly because of
the efficiencies of how Git stores data.
Because of that,
because of the compression and
these really interesting algorithms, we're
able to store the whole Git repository
with all of its history
on our local machines.
We don't need the local network to
be able to work on our repository.
Unless you're code base
is just absolutely huge,
it's really easy to check out branches,
pull down new changes.
There is an interesting news
story lately about Microsoft.
So Microsoft Windows was on one Git
repository, but because that code base was
so old and so
huge they started running into problems.
So unless you're planning on writing
the next Windows, the way Git works now is
probably just fine.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
on the left is the centralized model and
on the right is the distributed model.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now,
GitHub versus Git.
A lot of people seem to get
confused about the terminology.
So far, we've been talking about Git.
That is the tool, the workflow,
that you can use on your local machine.
Git allows more than that.
And GitHub is, it's really the key
to collaboration amongst developers.
You can collaborate with others,
you can share your changes,
you can pull down changes
from other contributors.
GitHub is a tool that's
built on top of Git.
It has an easy-to-use interface.
You can host your code for free,
you can share it with others.
It has a really nice interface for
collaboration.
And it's really the key driver
of open source development,
since it came out in 2008.
GitHub completely changed the picture.
So features like repository hosting,
browsing code, issues, pull requests and
forks, those are all GitHub features,
not Git.
It's important to make that distinction.